





posts on places like lifehacker, business insider, yahoo, etc were "pivotal" for IWT
(seen in a growthlab video)





https://medium.com/the-mission/the-launch-story-of-hipmunk-9957300ded87#.fm9gnsbqa
"But we would’ve been hosed without partnerships."
(hipmunk advice: hustle for partnerships; if they can get on a plane and pitch execs, I can send emails)
also win over people on the front lines (like whoever takes the calls for example)





Ramit (module 2 vault interview with director of growth):

So back at that point, there was a few blogs in the personal finance world. So I started making friends with all the bloggers and other people and I would just email them. I actually created a little formula for myself. I said, “I want to spend at least 50% of my time promoting what I write.” So I would email them and I would really add value to them. So I would say stuff like, “Hey, I really loved your article about X. Also thought you might be interested in Y.” He takes a different perspective but I happen to think that both of them are really valid.” So just pointing them to interesting stuff, staying up-to-date. I would leave a lot of comments that were really good on their blogs.

After a while, I ended up building relationships with a lot of people. I would link to them occasionally, stuff like that. So that when I wrote a really good post, I would send them a link and say, “Hey, just thought your readers might find this interesting.” At first, I probably got a maybe 5% hit rate where they would write about the article that I just posted. Over time, it came to be much higher, in some cases 30% or 50%. That really goes to show that when you build relationships with a few key people, that can be way more valuable than any amount of transactional stuff you have going on.


Brandon (later):

Yeah, absolutely. So I think time and a place for everything, and we’re starting from the beginning. A lot of time, we’re talking about just your core content. The time and place for that is you always, you always have to have your foundation there. Advanced things like contests, promotions, getting in the media, optimizing your social media, getting in paid advertising, those are some of the advanced things we do now to promote our different products. But we wouldn’t be there without some of the foundational systems that we created early on.














helpful post in ZTL group:


Rachita Sethi Reddy shared a link to the group: Zero to Launch private community.
38 mins ·

I completely revamped my angle on this article and I got accepted as a regular contributor to Thrive Global (Arianna Huffington's new site)!!

I pitched these same exact points to Business Insider but titled it, "How This Doctor and Mother of 3 Used 10 Mindsets to Lose 40% of Her Body Fat." I never heard back. Then I had an opportunity to get feedback from a former editor of several well-known magazines who was super blunt and told me this:

No one cares about reading about you. They want to read about something that's going to help THEM.

It was a much needed slap in the face that made me wake up and transform it into a timely article about how to succeed at New Year's resolutions. GUESS WHAT? It is so much stronger!!

If you have information you feel people need to hear, it pays to step back, take a new angle, and target their real pains. Yay!





