
Something that bothers coders but no one talks about


Recently, a reader sent a very honest message about an important topic.

I've reprinted it here with permission:

"I'm afraid to create, and this sound so dumb for me because the purpose I wanted to learn JS, CSS, HTML (Front-End Design) is for me to be able to create things and for me be able to get my dream Job and I want to help other trough frontend design. But after this years of learning it seems that it isn't enough. I'm afraid that the things I will create will suck at the end."

A lot of people face these sorts of concerns, so let's break down what's going on here.  There are four parts to this:

1) Worry about throwing away a lot of time for a bad result
2) Doubt about one's abilities
3) Fear of falling behind or not knowing enough
4) Fear of judgement from others

I've put together some suggestions for handling each of these problems.


1) Worry about throwing away a lot of time for a bad result

One way to solve this is to recreate good things you find on the web.  Maybe it's a home page, a menu, a layout, a grid, or a form.

By keeping the project small, you limit the time investment, and by picking something you already know you like, you won't have to worry about the result.

The more you do this, the more you'll start to understand why you like the things you do, and then you'll find yourself creating things you like.

2) Doubt about one's abilities

Doubts happen to everyone, and they don't completely go away.  It's impossible to know everything, so you'll always hear new information and wonder if it's something you should know.

I like to reframe this as a good thing.  If there were nothing new to discover, things would be boring.

Also, a great way to reduce doubts is to create more stuff with code.  That way, when doubts appear, you can point to the stuff you've made as a concrete reminder of your progress.  No doubts can take away what you've done.


3) Fear of falling behind or not knowing enough

There are a lot of tools and frameworks in the web development world, and it's easy to feel like things are moving too fast.

In this case, my advice is the same as always:
Get better at HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, and you'll automatically be better at everything else.


4) Fear of judgement from others

It's natural to be concerned about what others will think of your code.  The truth is, most people are too busy worrying about themselves to judge you.

Also, everyone makes mistakes.  For example, I've seen Apple, Google, and Facebook mess up their CSS in highly visible ways.

You know what?

It wasn't the end of the world.  They fixed it, and no one cared.

My point is that it happens to everyone, so don't worry about it too much.


Anyways, I hope this email has been helpful!

