When your entire knowledge gets judged because you didn't know that one random fact



Let's say you know a lot about a topic.

Suddenly a piece of trivia about that topic comes up in conversation.

It's something you don't know.

People see this, and they assume you know nothing about the entire topic just because you didn't know that one random fact.

Frustrating, right?

So why does this happen?

It happens because the brain likes shortcuts, so it's easy to assume the part you see represents the whole story.

Now why would this matter to you?

It matters because this pattern can have consequences that go far beyond looking silly in some random conversation.

For example:


- Interviews: miss one thing or phrase something in a way you didn't mean and they'll assume you know nothing
- Important meetings or networking: maybe you phrased something wrong and now they think you're a noob
- Learning: seeing other people throw around buzzwords and assuming they know all about it because they can talk a tiny bit about it; then you get discouraged because you feel like you can't possibly know all those things
- Estimating others
- belief in your own abilities
- can stop you from asking questions when you need to


what's the point I want to make?

- don't let this stop you from asking questions
- don't let this discourage you from learning
- minimize important incidents with preparation; and learn to guide towards the topics that show the truth of what you want to show


It's easy to look at the iceberg. You hear someone say a fact you don't know, and then you assume that means they know way more about everything than you do. This can lead to impostor syndrome, which is a false feeling that you're not good enough. It can also discourage you from learning. When you see someone confidently throw around the latest buzzwords, you might feel like these people have vast pools of knowledge about the subjects. Often this is not the case. A lot of times, you might say something they don't know, and then they'll feel like you know much more than them.

The point is, realize everyone knows different amounts about different things, and it's impossible to know everything. Just focus on learning what makes sense for your goals.





where it might not matter
every random conversation


where it matters and how to fix it

in interviews

in estimating one's own ability; and where it gives rise to negative comparisons with others

when someone else knows something, it seems like the tip of the iceberg and that they know vastly more about everything than you do

can worsen impostor syndrome

can stop you from asking questions when you need to
