1-on-1 Help with growing your online business.
* Required
Please give me a brief overview of your online business. What is your URL? What do you sell? How long have you been in business? etc. Include rough numbers wherever possible. *
Example: My business is MyURL.com.I sell a $97 fitness product twice a year which leads to $5k during those two months, and $0 the rest of the year. I also get about $250/ month in advertising sales. I have a list of 4,000. I’ve been in business for two years.

My business is SimpleStepsCode.com.  I've sold a coding course twice so far this year (first at $49 and now at $99).  The first launch generated about $1000, and the second launch is currently on track to hit a similar number (but with fewer new people, so that's a good sign).  My email list is around 2000 people.  Based on the testimonials, people seem to love the course.
What things have you tried in the past 3 months in order to grow your online business? What were the results (if any)? *
Example: I’ve automated my sales funnel for my main product, and I sent out a job posting for an assistant. I also bought X product. I've seen a X new sales, and I've had 3 people apply. etc.

I've done guest posts on increasingly high-profile sites in the web development world, I've added stronger testimonials to my sales page, and I've bought Accelerator and talked to the coaches.  I'm in the middle of a second launch, and so far it seems to be performing better ($800 so far with 800 new people on the email list as opposed to about $1000 total with 1300 people previously).
Which part of growing or maintaining your online business has been the most frustrating? BE SPECIFIC. *
Example: I’m having a hard time keeping up with X -- and balancing that with Y. I also don’t know if I should even focus on X, or instead do Z.

Not seeing the way forward after launching.  Throughout ZTL, I felt that I knew exactly what to do next.  After the launch, I felt more adrift.  There are so many options.  What do I do?  How do I avoid chasing shiny tactics.  Also, how do I avoid the cycle of "fight for a few more subscribers, do a launch, get $1000, wait months, and repeat?"  $3000 a year is decent for a tiny side project.  However, I don't want to spend years only for my business to finally build up to a minimum wage salary.  I'm willing to do any amount of work.  I just need to know: how do I step on the gas?
Imagine your business ran exactly how you wanted it to. You’ve got your ideal income, product, and schedule. How is that dream business different than your current business? *
Example: I get up without an alarm, instead of at 6am. Take weekends off, instead of working 6-7 days a week. Make $X per year, instead of $Y.

My ideal business would feel like a steady launch all the time.  I'd go to sleep, wake up, and see more sales.  (I love when that happens!)  I wouldn't be tied to a location, so I can visit my long-distance girlfriend without worrying about work.  The business would make $300,000 per year instead of $3000 per year.
Based on your responses, I might be interested in doing a 1-on-1 coaching session with you at my studio in NYC. Would you be interested in coming to NYC and going on camera with me? *
Yes
No
Please tell me the ONE question, challenge or sticking point I could help you with in person. Be as specific and detailed as possible -- the better your question, the more likely you will be selected. *
Example: Ramit, my situation is X. I'm having problems figuring out how to do Y. I've tried A, B, and C but nothing seems to be working. Can you recommend a course of action for me?

I can't see the way forward.  At the moment, I'm guest posting, getting subscribers, and launching.  The cycle is approximately 1000 new subscribers, a $1000 launch, wait months, repeat.  How do I accelerate growth?  I've tried raising prices (from $49 to $99), and the conversion rate is still decent (around 1%).  If progress continues at this rate, I'm on my way to $3000 a year, which is at least 40x less than where I'd like to be.  Now I have a bunch of choices, and I don't want to spend time on the wrong things.  Do I raise prices, create new products, automate my launches with unique timers for each individual, try paid search, etc?  I don't want to arrive 3 years from now with a business that still generates a few thousand dollars a year, but on my current trajectory, I'm not sure how to change that.
